The Big Red Island is renowned
as a place of incredible beauty
and diversity.
About 75 percent
of the plant and animal species
found in Madagascar
live nowhere else on the planet.
Another form of diversity on the island
has to do with the directive
given by Jesus at Luke 12:42
that he would appoint
a ‘faithful and discreet steward
‘over his body of attendants
‘to keep giving them
their measure of food supplies
at the proper time.’
Doing so for the diverse needs
of this large island was the main reason
for the original branch buildings
that were constructed,
which were dedicated
December 7, 1996.
However,
because of remarkable growth,
it was not long
before it became too small
and construction
was started once more.
Isaiah 54:2
foretold that this would happen
during the time we are living in.
And so it became necessary
to “make the place
“of your tent more spacious. . . .
And make
your tent pins strong.”
These newly expanded
branch facilities
were dedicated
by Brother Mark Sanderson
of the Governing Body
on Saturday,
January 24, 2015.
Brothers and sisters, it is a great privilege
for me to be here today
for the dedication
of these expanded facilities in Madagascar.
The diversity
among Jehovah’s unified people
was well represented
by the hundreds
of brothers and sisters
at this special event.
Included were guests
from 15 different countries,
along with longtime Witnesses,
Bethelites, circuit overseers,
special pioneers, and missionaries.
Even some of the first missionaries
were among the visitors.
In his dedication talk,
Brother Sanderson
highlighted
our ongoing spiritual building work
with those to whom we preach
and with ourselves.
We have to help
our students and our children
to build their own relationship
with Jehovah.
Is it your desire that we
should dedicate these buildings
to the worship and service
of our God, Jehovah?
The expansion
gives more office space
for the Malagasy translation team
for added projects.
This is a key to serving the food
in the right language.
So that spiritual food
can be served in the right locations,
the new offices
for the Local Design/Construction Department
help them to care
for the construction
of Assembly and Kingdom Halls
throughout the country.
These buildings serve
as spiritual banquet halls
for the more than 660 congregations.
But what about food
in the right format?
One of these formats is Braille
for the visually impaired.
In the main office complex,
a Braille Transcription Department
has been added that produces
Braille publications in Malagasy.
One blind sister commented:
Receiving Braille publications
in my mother tongue
has really touched my heart.
Thank you.
The facilities now include
a new sign-language studio
for recording
Madagascar Sign Language publications
on DVD and jw.org.
With publications
in this video format,
sign-language congregations
and groups are actively helping the deaf
to “hear” the good news
in the language of their heart.
A special meeting was held
the day after the dedication program,
which proved to be historic
as 28,683 people attended
either at the Assembly Hall
or via a live stream video tie-in
at their Kingdom Halls
to listen to a special talk
given by Brother Sanderson.
This represented nearly all
of Jehovah’s people in Madagascar.
Through these newly expanded
branch facilities,
“the faithful and discreet slave”
continues to provide the people of Madagascar
spiritual food supplies
at the proper time,
at the right locations,
in the correct languages,
and in up-to-date formats.